-Hey!
-Run! Move. move. move! Let's go!
Let's go!
Come on. move!
Go. go. go!
Hey. hey. hey! Come on!
Get to the helicopter! Look out. look out!
Get in! Come on!
Inside. inside!
-Where am I?
-Stay still. please.
You're in a Monarch medical facility.
No. Oh. no.
-No. no. no.
-Please stay still.
-No. where's Hiroshi?
-Calm down.
Please. Where's my son?
Where's Hiroshi? Where is he?
No. no! Get off me! Get off me! Please.
Let her go. She's not going anywhere.
Hiroshi!
EXIT
Mother.
Are you okay?
Where are we?
This is your legacy.
I don't understand.
This is Monarch.
What's the toll?
Sixteen confirmed dead.
a dozen in the sick bay. two critical.
Jesus Christ.
All right. let's see
what we're dealing with.
It's not just Kong.
Something's got everything on the island
frothing at the mouth.
What the hell did you do out there?
We got your people back.
-That was what we agreed.
-You have no idea why Kong attacked?
-No.
-Look. it's his island.
The only reason he lets us stay there is
if we don't stir the pot.
Well. we stirred the pot.
-Yeah. no shit.
-That's what you were there to prevent.
You were the Monarch liaison
to Apex Cybernetics.
Your responsibility to ensure protocols
were followed.
They were followed. We must have run
over a dozen tests.
Kong just sat there watching us.
This is something different.
Why have we been locked up?
You have no right.
It's all right. Kei.
-No. I'm not letting go!
-Thank you...
-No.
-For everything.
No. Lee! Lee!
What the hell is going on here?
Everybody just calm down. please.
I would like to know who's in charge.
Well. Apex are responsible
for bringing you back. I'm...
My name is Natalia Verdugo.
I'm Deputy Director of Monarch.
Deputy...
You'll find a lot has changed
in the time you've been away.
I already have.
You need rest.
I'm fine.
-I'm just a bit dizzy.
-It's a result of how long you've been
in Axis Mundi. as you call it.
It should wear off.
Miss Deputy Director.
when are we going back to get Lee Shaw?
We're not. Not now.
What?
-Why?
-Kong.
We believe his rampage may have
something to do
with the operation at the Apex base.
It is regrettable the colonel was lost.
He wasn't lost.
He stayed behind so we could make it out.
Setting foot on that island right now
is a suicide mission.
I know Lee Shaw.
He would never leave any of us behind.
He's alive. I know it. Please.
-I'm sorry.
-Please! Please.
No. no. no. It ate metal. remember?
That's right. That's right.
It was... It was...
It was a cross between a bear and a...
-A tiger. Also an elephant.
-A rhino. And it was a big...
-Pug... Pulgasari.
-Pulgasari!
And it is well documented
in Korean mythology.
Right. And how long
did you spend walking around Korea
trying to look for that thing?
Just 'cause I didn't see it
doesn't mean it does not exist.
Yes. darling.
And now we're here to prove that
sea serpents exist.
Well. from the records I found in
the maritime archives in Santiago.
there were reports of violent whirlpools
and sightings of massive sea creatures.
Just off the coast here.
going back 200 years.
So.
here be monsters.
If we're lucky.
Gracias. Captain...
Is this enough?
Okay. All right.
That feels like he knows something
we don't. huh?
Maybe they do too.
I got a good feeling about this place.
Where is everyone?
Gone fishin'.
Hey. what do we have here?
ALMACEN
What is it?
Blood?
-Maybe it's where they clean their catch?
-Yeah.
-How is it?
-Maybe...
maybe you should wait outside. huh?
Do you want to wait outside?
Whoa. what is that?
Billy. Billy. Billy...
Hi. what is that? Does that...
Does that come from the sea around here?
-Do you mind? Okay.
-Hey. hey. hey.
Hey. Whoa. Hold on. Hey.
You walk in here like you own the place?
-We don't know you.
-I just wanna take a photo.
Do you want money? Dinero.
-We don't know you.
-No. no. no.
There's no need for that. my friend.
I'm not your friend.
And you don't belong here.
Put the knife away. Tomás.
-We didn't mean to offend anyone.
-Hey. hey. hey.
Enough!
That's enough!
I'm sure our friends here didn't
mean to cause a problem. right?
Right.
-No.
Just put it away.
You gotta learn how to read the room. swab.
Come in.
Hey. Got some water if you want.
Thanks.
What's happening out there?
Just wrapping things up.
Then they'll take you to Tokyo.
And then?
More medical tests. debriefings.
and then whatever you want.
Then put you on a plane for home.
I suppose.
What about you?
Is this your world now?
Working with Dad?
I haven't had the time to think about it.
you know?
For two years. the job was to get you
back. and now you're back. so...
Not all of us.
It's not like we wanted to leave him.
You heard Verdugo...
You don't know what it was like
down there. Shaw would do it for us.
I don't know. Would he?
Kentaro. we never would have known that
Dad was even alive
if it hadn't been for him.
Because it served his agenda.
He never lied to us.
We asked him to help
us find Dad. and he did.
You don't even know if he's alive.
I mean. May said she saw him fall
at least 100 feet.
You can bet against him.
I'm not giving up.
How is she?
Sedated.
It's the effect of having been
in Axis Mundi for so long.
Like a deep-sea diver
coming to the surface too quickly.
She needs time to acclimate.
She'll be okay in a couple of hours.
I'm going back for Shaw.
Going back?
To the island?
Kentaro says it's some kind of nexus point.
That's a theory. but it doesn't matter.
Monarch has shut down our operation.
We are prohibited from setting foot
on the island.
When have you ever followed the rules?
Hey. wait. wait. wait.
You don't know what you're doing.
-You're gonna get yourself killed.
-Then help us.
She needs him.
She has us.
I won't allow it.
After G-Day. you disappeared for a year.
A year. You didn't even pick up a phone
to let us know you were alive.
Okay. that was a mistake.
But it's not an excuse for you
to do something crazy.
I'm not asking for permission.
Then I'm coming with you.
I hope I'm not disturbing you.
Axis Mundi and back safe.
-What a relief.
-What do you want?
Before I leave.
I wanted to see how you're doing.
No. you didn't.
You don't care.
I spent two years
and I won't even tell you
how much money to get you out of there.
I approved the mission.
I supervised it. so actually. I do care.
Corah. Apex is on the cusp of figuring out
how to live with these Titans.
And you can take us over the finish line.
You.
No more G-Days.
Or you can stay here with your friends.
who have absolutely no idea
what you're capable of.
and do God knows what.
There's an extra seat
for you if you want it.
Is that Brenda?
The one and only.
She offered me a seat
and what perversely sounded like a job.
Really?
-You're not...
-Oh. please.
She just wants my computer code I wrote.
The last time I fell for her bullshit.
She's probably trying to crawl her way
back into Walter Simmons's good graces
on the back of my work.
Still.
Nice to have a place you could go.
Okay.
I just...
I don't know what any
of us are gonna do now.
After everything that we've been through.
Time travel.
bringing my grandma back from the dead.
I mean. we saw...
Insane shit.
Yeah. we did.
You know. you got what
you were looking for.
You were looking for answers.
Did you forget?
Have you talked to him yet?
Maybe I set my expectations too high.
Him and Kentaro figured it out.
They seem tight.
Kentaro had two years with him that
I didn't have.
Yeah. and maybe that's the point.
You need to give it time.
We don't have time.
I'm not letting them leave without Shaw.
Cate. please.
I need your help.
Pretty impressive. huh?
Yeah. so cool.
-Outpost 18.
-Cool.
Seaborne command and control platform.
Connected to
the worldwide G-TASS satellite system.
What else? FV12 infrared thermal imaging.
Autonomous aerial drone.
Top speed nearly 40 knots.
How fast is a knot?
How fa... Well...
This is pretty fast for a boat.
Give me a sec.
Yeah.
Kentaro. Grab those bags
and the life jackets.
-We have to go.
-What... Wait. Wait.
What the hell? What. you were
just gonna leave without me?
Sorry.
I didn't think you'd make it.
There. That's our way through.
The whole island is in a frenzy.
The storm wall is closing faster
than I thought. Eight hours?
More like six.
Let's move.
Having fun yet?
No.
So why are you still here?
You really want to talk
about that right now?
I don't know.
I mean. it kind of
looks like a sick lobster
they found at the bottom of the ocean.
-It could be a fossil.
-Yeah.
Maybe some species
that's never been cataloged.
Would those guys try and gut me
like a fish over a fossil?
Or the catch of the day?
-Okay. look.
-Yeah.
But it doesn't mean it's a monster.
All right?
Well. it doesn't mean it's not.
-Let me see.
-Sure.
It's that guy's tattoo.
-Looks like a sea monster to me.
-Billy. you were a sailor.
I'm surprised that you don't have a tattoo
that looks like that.
He doesn't.
Oh. Jesus.
I'm getting the feeling these guys
don't really want us around here.
We should leave.
-Are you kidding?
-No.
Oh. come on.
They're obviously hiding something.
Well. I can't wait to get out there
tomorrow and start exploring.
Yeah. Hey...
Gracias.
Dance with me.
I'm sorry?
That was English.
Yeah. no. I-I... Yes...
I'm flattered. señorita.
But I'm taken... I'm spoken for.
You don't mind. do you?
Oh. no.
-I'll bring him right back. I promise.
-It's all right. Okay.
What... Hey...
Okay. good luck.
You're evil.
-Me?
-Yeah.
There's no harm in dancing.
What? Should I be worried?
What should you be worried about?
He's got you at home.
Your dance card seems
pretty full these days.
Not really.
No?
Who's that redhead
from Puckett's office? Darlene...
-Marlene.
-Okay.
No. that's not a thing.
You need to settle down before you get
yourself in trouble. you know that?
Oh. yeah?
Where's the fun in that?
What happened to the picket fence?
Cookouts?
Garden parties with the neighbors?
Kids?
Wasn't that the plan?
You know.
in the Army.
they teach you that
no battle plan survives the first shot.
Why does it have to be a battle?
It feels like
anything worth having always is. right?
We gotta go back.
This is the only way.
We have to go. Don't make a sound.
Run! Run!
Cate!
Dr. Randa?
You should really be resting.
My whole life was a struggle to get
people to call me doctor.
Right.
Maybe the world has changed for the better.
I hope so.
I'm Tim. by the way.
Oh. Keiko Randa.
I know.
So these images are
from artificial satellites?
Like Sputnik?
Yeah. I mean. you know.
a little more sophisticated.
-But the idea is the same.
-Of course.
It's incredible.
I hope I can be useful in some way.
Are you kidding?
Dr. Randa...
You are everything that
has been missing from this place.
All this tech. collecting data.
crunching numbers... For what?
You could return Monarch to what it was.
What it was always intended to be.
You could do that.
Well...
If these can show us
where Kong is on the island.
we should be able to avoid him. Right?
Yeah. I mean... You know. he's pretty fast.
Director Verdugo.
You said that it was
too dangerous to go back to get Lee.
but if we use this. we could find
a safe way back to your base. Yes?
I'm not risking any more lives.
I'm sorry.
Look at what I am dealing with.
What's that?
It's the security footage.
I'm trying to figure out why Kong attacked.
No. no. What is that?
Can you roll the film back?
Yes. ma'am.
Right there.
Where? What am I looking at?
Can you go closer?
You said this island was Kong's realm.
That he would try to protect it.
That's what we believe.
It's what he was trying to do.
Protect it.
From what?
Lucía. Lucía. that was fun.
I gotta take a break.
I... I gotta catch a breath now.
What are you doing?
I know why you're here.
What are you...
What are you talking about?
You want to know about this?
Okay. yeah. Wh-What does it mean?
Does it have to do with that?
Of course.
Okay. how?
Why do you want to know?
I used to be a sailor.
Many years ago. something
came from the sea.
It took my ship and my shipmates.
And ever since. I've been trying to
learn as much as I can about...
about monsters.
What they want. how
we can coexist with them.
I think you know what I'm talking about.
This is their religion. Do you understand?
He is like their god.
They worship him. and the sea provides.
Who? Who do they worship?
They will do what they need to
to protect their secret.
You have to leave here.
Thank God.
Hey. don't get comfortable.
We're not any safer here
than we were out there.
Just more exposed.
Then we better work fast.
Where do we start?
You really think
that's what Kong is worried about?
It seems kind of small.
They don't act alone.
Director Verdugo.
What's going on?
One of the Zodiacs
is missing from the sea dock.
And we can't find Dr. Randa...
The other Dr. Randa. his children
or Corah Mateo anywhere on the ship.
They must have gone back for Lee.
Goddamn it.
Charlie.
Well. you got what you wanted.
No. we have to warn them.
They're gonna get themselves killed.
Right. Dr. Randa. you need to tell us
everything you know.
or everything you think you know.
Okay.
I will need to run a diagnostic. but...
the internal batteries are dead.
Yeah. but you can hardwire that.
Kong tore the grid apart.
And we will need to
get the backup generators running.
Yeah. I'll go.
With the perimeter fences down.
we don't know what else
could have gotten in here.
I know where the power panel is.
If you want to get Shaw back.
you need to keep working.
You shouldn't go alone.
Watch your step. It's just up here.
Stay close.
Why did you do it?
Did you need a second family because
Mom and I weren't good enough?
No. It wasn't like that.
Then what was it like?
What the hell were you thinking?
If you must know...
I wasn't...
thinking.
That's not good enough.
Believe what you like.
Here. Plug this in.
Emiko. Kentaro's mother.
worked at Monarch.
And she shared my world.
It was very natural for us to be together.
What about Mom?
It was very different with Caroline.
Monarch was still a secret back then.
And I couldn't tell her what I did.
So. you lied to her?
I never had to lie.
I could be who I was with her.
And I loved her for that.
How do you love two
people at the same time?
It's not something you decide to do.
Feels ominous.
Or fortuitous.
It's beautiful.
It is.
Okay. What next?
Well. first light.
I think we should start exploring.
There's definitely a story here.
-Yeah. definitely. Definitely.
-Yeah.
The locals love us.
so getting a room shouldn't be too
difficult as long as I don't get stabbed...
Jesus Christ!
Did you tell them?
-What?
-Tell us what?
-I-I was going to.
-It is dangerous for you to stay here.
Really? No shit.
Well. that usually means
there's something worth finding out.
No. that usually means that
we should try and leave. Billy.
-You should listen to your friend.
-Thank you.
Please. I can help you get a boat.
-but we must hurry.
-Okay. Okay.
Is it true?
Are you hiding something?
If I show you. you will leave?
Way to go.
Kentaro!
May. get out!
Are you okay?
Yeah.
Shaw better be alive.
Monarch command. this is Eagle one.
Visibility dropping fast.
Oh!
You all right?
Yeah. it's just...
I had a bad experience
in a helicopter once.
The storm wall is closing
faster than we thought.
We need to head back.
No. we need to stop them.
Keep going.
-Is it up and running?
-We gotta go. We're not alone here.
Yeah. the levels are holding steady.
We're running out of time.
Either do it now or we go.
What are you waiting for?
They're there.
Can't land here. There's too much debris.
Cate.
We spent over a year testing this
under optimal conditions
before we could bring you back.
These conditions are not optimal.
They are coming for us.
You said you could do it.
I said I could try.
Then try!
We fell into another world.
You didn't know if we were alive.
but you came here
and you did all of this anyway.
You did it for me.
I need to do it for Shaw.
This doesn't feel right.
I don't like this.
Where are you taking us?
We're here.
Okay. Remember. I show you. you leave.
Agreed. Right? Got it?
-Yeah?
-Yeah. Yes.
-Okay.
-This way.
Jesus.
Those in the village wait year after year
for their God to return.
to bless the waters
and bring the bounty of the sea.
Hey!
Let's go right now.
We're ready to send down the pod.
The storm wall is closing.
If we don't get off this island
in ten minutes. we're never getting off.
-We just need a few minutes.
-Okay. come on.
Go. go! Let's go.
You tried. Cate.
But if you open that rift again.
you don't know what you could unleash.
I've already lost one family.
I don't want to lose any more.
Please. I'm begging you.
Come on. Let's go.
I got you! Don't let go of me!
Cate!
Cate. don't!
It's gonna pull us in!
We gotta get outta here.
Oh. God. please.
Shit.
Shit!
We gotta get outta here!
Cate. hold on!
Oh. that's not gonna be good.
Go. go. everybody. Get out of here!
We're leaving!
Dr. Randa! Dr. Randa. please. come on!
We gotta go! Please!
Oh. my God!
Oh!
Shaw!
Let's go! Move!
-Lee! Lee!
-No. no. no. We gotta go.
Go. go. go. go!
Go! Move! Go!
Whoa. whoa. whoa! Look out!
Let's go!
Come on. We need to go!
Come on!
Where's Verdugo?
Hey! Where's Verdugo?
She's gone.
Let's go!
Probably should have left me.
The hell is that thing?